in this screencast we'll give an
overview of how to work with Gradle in
IntelliJ IDEA we'll look at creating new
Gradle projects importing projects
managing dependencies and running tasks
let's create a new Gradle project we
need to choose the Java version to use
we're going to use the latest version of
Java 8 if our project used other
languages we can choose those here but
for this demo let's just stick with Java
Gradle projects needed group ID and
artifact ID so we'll enter those here at
this stage we have some Gradle specific
options also import will automatically
apply changes if you update Gradle
settings we'll look at this later the
second setting is really useful for new
projects as it sets up the directory
structure for your project so will tick
this will explore the third option later
for this simple project we don't need to
worry about multiple source sets we do
want to use the Gradle wrapper for this
project by using the Gradle wrapper it
means that anyone who wants to work on
this project code doesn't have to
install Gradle separately we can choose
a different project name and location if
we want but the defaults look fine here
IntelliJ IDEA has created a simple
project for us and as we requested the
default Java and test directories have
been created - if we look at the basic
build Gradle file that was created for
us we already have a suggestion waiting
we can make a simple change to give us
access to the Gradle sources and
documentation if we open the Gradle
window we can see the Gradle tasks that
are available to us and any dependencies
that have been declared the basic build
file included a dependency on J unit 4
so we can see this as well as the
handcraft library that J unit is
dependent upon these are also visible as
external libraries in the project window
with a Gradle prefix so you know where
they came from
as you'd expect IntelliJ IDEA gives you
code completion in the build up Gradle
file
if we make changes to this file IntelliJ
IDEA detects this and offer suggestions
we can either apply the changes manually
when we're ready or we can enable auto
import to apply changes as they're made
so we don't have to remember to import
them IntelliJ IDEA has recognized that
we're now using the groovy plug-in and
has created the directories for our
groovy files IntelliJ IDEA can add
dependencies to our build file we can
search for the library we want by name
or path and select the one we want we'll
see the new dependency and it's
transitive dependencies in the Gradle
window and in the project window
the library's needed by gradle are also
shown in the project library's window
again with the Gradle prefix to show
that these have been added by Gradle
note that while it's still possible to
add other external libraries here and
even use them in the IDE as soon as the
Gradle settings are reapplied these
dependencies are removed Gradle projects
should always use Gradle to manage the
dependencies
we can use the greater window to see
which tasks are available for us to run
and it's updated when we add new plugins
which give us additional tasks running a
task from here shows the output in the
run window either as a summary of stages
with time taken for each step or as a
familiar command-line Gradle output
we've looked at the basics of creating
and working with a Gradle project it's
more likely we'll be working with an
existing application that uses Gradle
let's import a Gradle project selecting
the folder for a project that contains a
build.gradle file will usually mean
IntelliJ IDEA imports the project as a
Gradle project however selecting the
build.gradle file itself is the most
certain way to import the project as a
Gradle project and not some other format
that may be in the project we see
similar options to when we created a new
project I'm not going to use auto import
on this project as it has a complex
build which I don't want to be run every
time I make a small change to the
build.gradle file I'm also not going to
create directories automatically either
since this is an existing project and
all the folders we need should already
be there we'll import this project
without creating a separate module per
source set and later we'll look at the
difference it makes if we do tick this
box this project does have the Gradle
wrapper so we'll use this IntelliJ IDEA
runs Gradle on the project when it's
first imported to initialize it and
bring in the dependencies once the
structure of the application is
understood we're given a list of all the
IntelliJ IDEA modules that could be
created to the project and we can choose
which ones to create we can see that
IntelliJ IDEA has created modules for
all the sub projects in this Gradle
project it also correctly recognizes the
source and test directories as defined
in the Gradle build even though this
project doesn't follow the usual
standard each of these modules has its
own dependencies as defined by Gradle
now let's see what a difference it makes
to import this project with slightly
different settings specifically let's
select create separate module per source
set so we understand what this means
because we've previously imported this
project we already have settings defined
for IntelliJ IDEA but what we want to do
is override these with our updated
settings this time IntelliJ IDEA not
only suggests modules for each sub
project but also sub modules for all the
source sets in each module this project
has separate source sets for different
types of tests so these can all be set
up as independent IntelliJ IDEA modules
we'll see why we might want this in a
minute
now each of these test folders is a
module not just a folder inside a larger
module this means that each of these
modules has its own dependencies and
doesn't simply share all the
dependencies from the sub project this
may more accurately represent the Gradle
build so compiling and running inside
the IDE gives the same result as
compiling and running from Gradle the
Gradle window shows each of the sub
projects that make up the application
including the different source sets with
their own dependencies and of course the
tasks available as we saw earlier tasks
like the test tasks can be run from here
and the test results will be shown as
the familiar IntelliJ IDEA test results
along with the Gradle task output but we
can also run the tests or a subset of
them from inside the IDE if we want if
the project needs the build to be
performed by Gradle for example to
generate code or to deploy artifacts we
can tick the delegate IDE build to
Gradle settings if we choose this even
when we run the test through the IDE
IntelliJ IDEA will use Gradle to build
the project before running the tests in
this video we've looked at how to work
with Gradle projects in IntelliJ IDEA
take a look at the documentation for
more details or check out the YouTube
channel for more videos thanks for
watching